iSelect
Programming Language:
Java with Android Framework. I used Google Firebase as my backend.
Description of application usage:
Sign up fragment – The user signed up for the app. He chooses a password and email and for validation he re-types a password. Finally he chooses whether he is a doctor or a patient.
Login fragment - The user connects to the application through the authentication of Firebase. According to his role, a doctor or patient will be transferred to the appropriate fragment that will be his main display.
Patient view fragment - The patient has a list of all the doctors. For each doctor is shown his name, email and if he is available for treatment. At the top left, there is a button that he can sort the doctors by availability, doctors who are available will be displayed first. By clicking on the doctor you will be transferred to the fragment of scheduling an appointment. Doctor meeting fragment - In this fragment the details of the doctor are presented again. Clicking the Make Appointment button will check if the doctor is treating someone, if not you will go straight to his currentPatient and receive an appropriate notification. If the doctor treats someone, you will be added to the waiting list shown below. Clicking the Cancel Appointment button will remove you from the doctor waiting list. I added a swipe to refresh mechanism. When doing a refresher on the waiting list there is a check whether a patient is more than 10 minutes with the doctor, if so, The current patient goes out and whoever is in 0th place on the waiting list will enter. When a patient clicks on Make Appointment and he enters the 0th place on the waiting list he will receive a notification that he is next in line. When a patient enters the doctor, the field arrivedAt is updated to the doctor's entry time so that he can be with him for at least 10 minutes. If a user tries to do a refresh and less than 10 minutes have passed, the patient will stay with the doctor. Only after 10 minutes, the current patient will delete and the next in line will enter.
Doctor view fragment - The doctor is shown his waiting list. The data is already drawn according to the time of arrival but I have added a button above that by clicking on it the doctor can sort the patients according to their time of arrival. Also in this fragment I used the same mechanism of swipe to refresh in order to update the patients and run the queue. When a doctor does not have a patient his status is updated to be available.
In the project I used MVC architecture. The fragments are my Views, the Firebase is the model, and the class named Model is the controller and it is Singleton. I use it wherever I want to access the server to create a layer that separates the server from the view.
I built all the lists with Recycle View and accordingly each class has adapters. A doctor and patient inherit a User which is their base class which contains information common to each user.
